Okay.
So the next file that I want to migrate to TypeScript is going to be our getters test file and that
is getters that test that just as a reminder, the file is located in test unit store.
So here's my getters that test, that just file.
And so I'm going to change its extension to be test for typescript so getters that test acts and you're
going to notice that as soon as I enable TypeScript it's going to identify some issues for us.
And these are actually going to be very familiar issues to the ones that we encountered when we converted
our mutations file to be attached to file as well.
So our getters, much like our mutations, expect to receive a view store state and that your extra
state is of type global state.
Unfortunately, the sample objects that we are providing here do not fulfill all of the properties of
the global state interface.
So for example, in this test, this very first one, we are providing a state with a jobs property
which which means we are missing some of the additional properties like is logged in selected organizations,
selected job types, etc..
All right.
So the exact same issue we had with our mutation file.
So let me open up my mutations test file and that's going to be mutations that test.
That test.
And of course, the way we solve this problem is by creating a bunch of factory functions up here that
had a reasonable fallback for a valid state.
Right.
But also allowed each test to provide its own configuration encased in case it cared about its own configuration
of what it needed for the state or for the job for that particular test.
So the good news is these functions are actually reusable.
And that brings me to the next point, which is now that we've identified that we can use these kinds
of helper functions in multiple test files.
It doesn't really make sense to store them in mutations that test states because now they have revealed
themselves to be reusable.
So what I propose we do in this lesson before we start working on the Getters test file is we move these
helper functions, these factory functions to a new file which I will call Utils Dots.
And utils is just short for utilities or in other words, helper functions that assist us in our test
suite.
So let's do that right now, and then we'll come back and incorporate these new helper functions into
getters in the next lesson.
So for now, I'm going to close this file and in my test unit store directory, I'm going to create
another file and I'm going to call it Utils that T.S. It's not a test file is just a, it's just a a
regular typescript file that other test files will import from.
All right.
So I'm going to move this over to the right.
And all I'm going to do in this file is copy and paste the logic I have right here.
So my create state function and my create job function.
I'm going to copy and paste that into my new utils file.
And of course, that's going to create some issues of its own because of course we need our global state
interface, we need our job interface and we also need our state function.
So we need all three imports that we have right here, state, job and global state.
I'm going to copy that pasted right here.
There we go.
So now that should make those initial errors go away.
And of course, the other thing I want to do now that these functions are in a separate file is I need
to make sure I export them.
So I'm not going to have any kind of default export.
I'm just going to make them all named exports.
So right here, export const and right here, export const.
All right.
So all that's left to do now is to now utilize these functions in our mutations test file.
And then later on, we'll also apply them to our getters test file.
So right here, we can go ahead and remove our former implementation.
Right, right.
Right here.
All right.
So we can see that all of our former imports are now faded out, which means they're not being used
anywhere in our file so we can get rid of them right here.
These lines are now in our utils file on the right.
And so the only thing we have to do now is to import our two helper functions, create job and create
state from this utils far right here.
So I'm going to import the named export create job as well as create state that is coming from the left
and the right hand side.
And then, of course, we come to an issue of how do we reference the file on the right.
So unfortunately, remember that we have the act sign, but the outside represents our source directory
and our tests are in a separate tests directory.
So instead of doing absolute imports, as we've done for most things throughout the course, in other
words, starting our import from the top level of the source directory here, I'm going to use relative
imports.
And what I'm going to tell TypeScript is to look in the exact same folder as where I am right now.
So my utils file is in the same folder as mutations that test that.
Yes.
So what I can do is use my dot slash syntax to say look in the current directory and then the file within
the current directory where TypeScript can find these exports is going to be my utils file.
All right.
So what I'm doing in my mutations test file is I'm importing these two helper functions from where they're
defined in this file on the right.
And you'll see as soon as I save this, all of my typescript errors go away.
Because now TypeScript knows what create state is and now knows what create job as we're simply utilizing
those helper functions.
And now we've enabled them to be reusable because they're no longer locked away within a described block
here where no other test can access them.
Perfect.
So now we have a utils file and in the very next lesson we can apply it to our getters test suite.
I'll see you there.